We'll come back here and I'm going to show you some more things that we can do with canvas.
So the previous lesson we got introduced to canvas and there's even more we can do.
So if you want to simply draw a line we can actually move the positioning of where we're starting to
draw so we can set up position of our start drawing and that's X and Y so we can use the same parameters
and we can start at that 10.
And this time I'm going I started out to 70.
So this is our starting point.
So think of this as if you're putting a pen down on a piece of paper.
This is where you want to start it.
We're going to put it at 10 and to 70 So that's roughly around where my cursor is.
So next to that we want to do is we want to draw a line.
So we're going to move our line and we're going to use lying to.
And this requires two parameters again.
So it needs another point.
So this is our starting point.
And then this is our ending point.
So let's end this at 1 10 and 3.
70.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
And one last thing that we need to do is we actually have to apply the stroke and the stroke is basically
telling us that we want to.
So we've got our move so we're moving our starting point.
So essentially our pen we're starting up to 10 x coordinate 10 and y to 70.
We're moving it to 110 and 370 and then we're applying the stroke.
So let's go ahead and refresh it and we see that we get to apply a basic line.
So starting point ending point we can draw a nice line and just as we saw earlier where we've got a
line with and we've got a stroke.
So if we've set those then those values are still going to be the same and they're still going to get
implemented when we're actually drawing any other strokes on our canvas.
So the thing that we can do is we can draw a circle.
So this again we need a starting point.
So let's start and we're going to use begin path and begin path is going to do is this is going to give
us basically lifting up the pen and moving it to our new location.
And we're going to add in so we're going to do CTX and we're going to build an ark.
So what an arc does is this basically allows us to create a rounded format for our for our drawing.
So basically we're able to draw circles using ARC.
So we need a starting point and the starting point is going to be the float x and the float.
Why.
So this is the center point of where we want to draw our circle.
So I set this at 60 and I'm going to also set this at
430.
So that's where our circle is going to be.
Next thing that we need to set is a radius for the circle.
So in order to add in radius.
So however far we want to go out.
So I only go 50 picks out the next promotor that we're looking for is we need to have a starting angle.
So this is basically the angle that we want to start at.
And if you're drawing a circle you don't need a starting angle.
And then lastly we need to have one more parameter here and this is going to be the float
end angle and we can use actually PI for this so this is bringing in the javascript math and we can
do math PI and that's going to give us the PI parameter that we can bring into our content.
And then lastly one other thing we need to do is we need to apply stroke.
So go ahead and refresh it and you can see because we're actually picking up those random colors.
So there's our circle.
So what do I need to do now is paused the video and draw a circle with a line through it.
So go ahead and open up your editor and draw a circle with a line through it and you can make use of
some of the things that we've done here earlier within this lesson where we've drawn a circle we've
drawn a line.
So all you have to do is figure out what coordinates you're starting with for X and for y and where
you're ending off to on the line and then the same thing for the circle where you're going to start.
How big the circle is going to be and where it's starting at x and y position.
So go in and try that 8 and I'm going to show you one other thing coming up within this lesson.
And we also have another option for drawing within our canvas and we can actually use text.
So this one again the CTX object and I'm going to use fill a text so fill text is basically going to
allow us to write something on our canvas.
So of course signator rate Hello world.
And then I just need to specify where that hello world is going to be located.
So again we're going to need an x and a Y position.
So I'm going to use starting at x 10 and I'm going to use y of 5 for the and we also have an option
for a maximum with but I'm not going to utilize that.
So there we go.
So now we've got some text and we've actually got some more options for the text itself so we can set
a text size because we saw that this is actually really small.
So let's go ahead and set a size and the size is going to be a string value.
So we can set a size and I'm going to use 24 picks for the size.
So let's go ahead and refresh it.
And one other thing too that we need to include in here is we need to include the font type.
So you set it as Aeriel.
So now let's refresh.
And so there we go.
Snow we've got some bigger text.
And notice the other thing too that the text is taking the fill style property.
So it's actually taking that same color filler value that we have within Phil's style.
So that's some other way that if you wanted to you can set a color of text.
And the thing now that you've got canvas you can actually save that image.
So I'm just simply clicking on it and I can copy that image and I could save it as a download and we
can see that it automatically creates a PLG file.
So this is just that image that we've actually created.
So it's actually creating a real image here.
And this is really exciting when it comes to building out stuff within your web page because you can
actually generate images with canvas so what I want you to do now is to create an input field and whenever
that input fields and also a button.
So whenever that button gets clicked that we're actually going to update and add in some text within
the canvas we're not going to output it into our ID.
We're actually going to write it into canvas and I'll show you the solution coming up so be had an opportunity
to try that out.
So we're creating an input so the input is just a regular text input.
Are you given an ID so we can grab it within our javascript.
We're going to call it my words and we'll close it off.
And then also one more input and this is going to be a button and this one will give it an ID.
Or actually just going to do an on click on this one.
So whenever it gets clicked then we're going to fire off and we're going to call it a draw.
So basically whenever this gets clicked then it will actually draw it into the canvas.
So the next available slot and the value is going to be called the value for it draw on as well.
So we can go back and we can refresh our page and now we've got our option to draw and actually it to
move this above the canvas just so it looks a little bit better above there so we don't have it kind
of off to the side because I don't want to go through with styling and actually do a line break here
so that it's below.
So there we go.
So now we've got an input here and we're ready to fire that off with draw.
So it's create our function and the function is draw.
So basically what we want to happen here is we want to draw some type of words here within the canvas.
So every time we click it we want to draw those words.
So now so these are global objects.
So we know that we learned earlier from global objects that we can really do this really simply where
all of those values are ready globally available.
So we don't have to reset any of those.
And all we have to do is do the fill taxed.
So that means that we need to get a value for the full text.
So let's do my words and we'll do documents get element by IDs a grab that my words field and we'll
pull back the value from there.
So we know that whenever we do this we can't insert it this way.
So now let's refresh the page let's say test and draw and there we go so we can draw it there.
So that's all we have to do in order to draw onto our canvas and we can do a whole lot more we can run
any one of these and we can have some calculations and we can do a lot of really cool stuff when we
start combining what canvas can do and adding in javascript alongside with it.
So there's a lot of options for us to do some really cool stuff.
So the other thing that you might want to do is you might want to track where the words are located
so that you can actually move them down.
So I've got my y position at 540 So maybe we'll set a global Y and we're going to set it at 540 as a
default.
I'm going to change the height of this to a hundred.
So it will give us a little bit more space to play with and I'm going to use variables instead of these
default values.
And then every time I write to it I'm going to increase.
I'm going to do y equals Y plus 30.
So that will give me enough space to add even more words.
So let's try this.
So let's do a test and we'll do test two and a bunch of other stuff.
So now we can draw and we can write directly into our Kandace.
That's as easy as that to write into Kandace So the next lesson I'm going to show you something else
you can do with canvas where we know now that we can actually create images and we can take these images
and actually add them into Kandace so you can actually have multiple canvases and add images.
So take some random generated images and then apply them to a third image.
So I show you how to do that.
Coming up in the next lesson.